# Post-LDA Analyses

**This folder is primarily for CBIG's internal use.**

These folders contain the analyses that we performed after the LDA step. Almost all figures appearing in our paper were generated by some folders here. Since many of these folders depend on certain files on our server, it will be hard for anyone to run them directly. However, we still release these folders in the hope that you do not need to start from scratch when performing similar analyses.

---

## What Does Each Folder Do?

1. `characteristics` (Table S2). This folder investigates whether patient characteristics (e.g., gender) are different across the atrophy factors.
2. `corrApMCIApADWithADFactors` (Fig. S3). This folder correlates atrophy factors estimated using amyloid-positive MCI (and AD) subjects with atrophy factors estimated using all 188 AD subjects.
3. `factorDistribution` (Figs. 4 and S5). This folder visualizes factor compositions of the subjects for K = 2, 3 and 4. 
4. `factorHierachy` (Fig. S2).  This folder explores the possibility that two unknown factors in the (K+1)-factor model were subdivisions of an unknown factor in the K-factor model (whereas the other factors remained the same).
5. `factorStability` (Figs. 3 and S4). This folder compares subjects' baseline factor compositions and their factor compositions 24 months after baseline.
6. `FDRCorrection`. This folder performs FDR correction on all of our statistical tests.
7. `functions`. This folder contains functions that are shared across others folders.
8. `ignoreFactors`. This folder examines diagnostic group differences in memory and executive function without considering factor compositions.
9. `jointGLM` (Figs. 5, 6, S6, S7 and S8). This folder utilizes GLM to explore the relationships between cross-sectional cognition and atrophy factors.
10. `jointGLM_memRegEF` (not used for the paper). Same as above, but this time with memory and executive function regressing out the effects of each other.
11. `jointLMEModel` (Figs. 5, 7, S6, S7 and S8). This folder utilizes the LME model to explore the relationships between longitudinal cognitive decline rates and atrophy factors.
12. `jointLMEModel_memRegEF` (not used for the paper). Same as above, but this time with memory and executive function regressing out the effects of each other.
13. `MCI2ADProgression` (not reported). This folder tests whether different atrophy factors are associated with different probabilities of progressing from MCI to AD.
14. `normalizeMemEF` (not used for the paper). This folder normalizes the ADNI-Mem and ADNI-EF scores.
15. `totalAtrophy` (not reported). This folder tests whether different atrophy factors are associated with different amounts of total atrophy.
16. `validateFactorsWithFSStats` (Table S1). This folder investigates, with volume estimations by FreeSurfer, whether an atrophy factor is indeed associated with severe atrophy in the corresponding brain regions.
