This readme includes the steps about how to run the single subject preprocessing pipeline to check the correctness of code (this check is especially useful for admin when you are releasing some code). 

Notice that all the filenames and directories below work for CBIG lab only. It is assumed that the input surface data are in `fsaverage5` space.

----

## Data

- Data set

The `CBIG_fMRI_Preproc2016` preprocessing scripts use the Brain Genomics Superstruct Project (GSP) data as a baseline data set. All data mentioned here are based on GSP data set.

GSP data contain both structual MRI (T1) and functional MRI (T2*). All subjects (N = 1570) are healthy, young subjects (age: 18-35). The preprocessed (by `recon-all`) structual MRI data and raw functional MRI are in this folder:

```
/mnt/eql/yeo1/data/GSP_release
```

where the folder names with `_FS` (e.g. `Sub1116_Ses1_FS`) meaning they are structual MRI data after `recon-all` processing, and the folder names without `_FS` (e.g. `Sub1116_Ses1`) meaning they are raw functional MRI data.

- Preprocessed data (groud truth)

The preprocessed subject (Sub1116_Ses1) for comparison is stored here

```
$CBIG_TESTDATA_DIR/stable_projects/preprocessing/CBIG_fMRI_Preproc2016/single_subject/data
```

----

## Code

The users can use this command to call the preprocessing pipeline

```
$CBIG_CODE_DIR/stable_projects/preprocessing/CBIG_fMRI_Preproc2016/unit_tests/single_subject/CBIG_preproc_unit_tests_call_fMRI_preproc.csh <preproc_out_dir>
```

The pipeline will be run with this configuration file

```
$CBIG_CODE_DIR/stable_projects/preprocessing/CBIG_fMRI_Preproc2016/unit_tests/single_subject/prepro.config
```

The estimated walltime and mem usage are ~1h and ~6G.

----

## Results

The users should compare **three** aspects of their results from the ground truth: (1) the timeseries in fsaverage surface space; (2) the timeseries in MNI 2mm volumetric space; (3) the functional connectivity matrices

- Compare timeseries in fsaverage space

In a bash shell, use the following command

```
$CBIG_CODE_DIR/stable_projects/preprocessing/CBIG_fMRI_Preproc2016/unit_tests/single_subject/CBIG_preproc_unit_tests_cmp_in_fsaverage5.csh <preproc_out_dir> <file_stem_in_fsaverage5_space> <compare_out_dir>
```

This command will generate the correlation between the timeseries in your preprocessed NIFTI file and the ground truth timeseries for each vertex in fsaverage5 space. You can check the histogram of the correlations (named as `<compare_out_dir>/Sub1116_Ses1/<run_number>/gt_user-test_corr_surf_hist.png`), as well as the plot of correlations projected on fsaverage5 space (named as `<compare_out_dir>/Sub1116_Ses1/<run_number>/gt_user-test_corr_surf.png`).

- Compare timeseries in MNI 2mm space

In a bash shell, use the following command:

```
$CBIG_CODE_DIR/stable_projects/preprocessing/CBIG_fMRI_Preproc2016/unit_tests/single_subject/CBIG_preproc_unit_tests_cmp_in_mni2mm.csh <preproc_out_dir> <final_file_stem_in_MNI_space> <compare_out_dir>
```

This command will generate the correlation between the timeseries in your preprocessed NIFTI file and the ground truth timeseries for each grey matter voxel in MNI 2mm space. You can check the histogram of the correlations (named as `<compare_out_dir>/Sub1116_Ses1/<run_number>/gt_user-test_corr_vol_gm_hist.png`), as well as visualize the spatial distribution of the correlations in the MNI space (named as `<compare_out_dir>/Sub1116_Ses1/<run_number>/gt_user-test_corr_vol_gm.nii.gz`) using freeview.

- Compare functional connectivity matrices

In a Matlab terminal, use the following command:

```
cd(fullfile(getenv('$CBIG_CODE_DIR'), 'stable_projects', 'preprocessing', 'CBIG_fMRI_Preproc2016', 'unit_tests', 'single_subject'));
CBIG_preproc_FCmatrices_UnitTestCmp('<preproc_out_dir>', '<test_file_stem>');
```

`preproc_out_dir` should store the directory path where the output data (generated by `CBIG_preproc_unit_tests_call_fMRI_preproc.csh`) is stored. `test_file_stem` is an optional argument. It is a string that is appended to the generated FC matrices filename. For example, a typical FC matrix file name could be `Sub1116_Ses1_rest_skip4_stc_mc_residc_interp_FDRMS0.2_DVARS50_bp_0.009_0.08_fs6_sm6_all2all.mat`. In this case, the `test_file_stem` would be `rest_skip4_stc_mc_residc_interp_FDRMS0.2_DVARS50_bp_0.009_0.08_fs6_sm6`. The default `test_file_stem` is `rest_skip4_stc_mc_residc_interp_FDRMS0.2_DVARS50_bp_0.009_0.08_fs6_sm6`.  If you successfully replicated the ground truth functional connectivity matrices, this command will output `"All correlation matrices are the same"`. A text file will named `inequal_corr_log.txt` will also be generated and stored in `preproc_out_dir`. It will display the differences between the user-generated results and the ground truth.

----

## References

- Holmes, Avram J., et al. "Brain Genomics Superstruct Project initial data release with structural, functional, and behavioral measures." Scientific data 2 (2015).
